>> Maximiliano Firtman: So,
the final section, it's just some ideas,
some other patterns that
I wanna just throw here
that cannot be categorized
on the previous one.
First, when we are talking about
design patterns for web apps,
there are a lot of classic patterns
that probably you know, but
you didn't recognize
initially as design patterns.
For example, progressive web apps.
Progressive web app creation or design or
development is actually a design pattern.
We don't have an API with
the name progressive web app,
it's not really a type of HTML.
So what it is, it's just a design pattern.
It's more an architectural design pattern,
but it's a design pattern when you wanna
create installable offline capable
apps using web technologies.
Responsive web design is
another design pattern.
When you use those terms, and
you realize there is no API behind that.
Yeah, responsibly using media queries,
yeah, it's using, but
that using is part of the solution
of the design pattern.
There was a problem, this design
pattern is offering you a solution.
Then these are design patterns,
mobile first is another classic
design pattern for web apps.
The idea was, when you start a new
project, start thinking about the mobile
device first, and then you move it
into the desktop offline first.
Just think your app for offline usage.
So think that the user will
never have connection.
Of course, at least you will need
connection once to actually get
your app once.
But try to think about your app as if
we'll never get connection in the future.
Okay, so well in the progressive web app,
course, of course, another
link to another course, we cover some of
those design patterns in more details.
Progressive enhancement is another design
pattern that we have already used here.
In fact, the P in PWAs is coming
from progressive enhancement.
Not every platform supports all
the APIs that we want to use.
So instead of just using it or giving
the user an error message, I'm sorry,
you cannot use my app,
your browser is not compatible.
That was in the 90s,
we were saying this, a message.
Now you need Netscape to access my
website if not, it's not gonna work.
Instead of that, the solution is
start by offering A web solution
that works everywhere that
you can run even on IE4.
And then maybe not IE4, but IE12 maybe.
And then you add layers on top.
It's like if view transitions API is
available, okay, we use view transitions.
If web Bluetooth is available,
we use web Bluetooth.
But you don't give them an error
message if the API is not there.
Yeah, that ability might not be there,
but that's all.
Use cases, access hardware and platform
APIs offline support because maybe
you don't have service worker support,
accessibility as well, okay?
I think I have two or
three more quick design patterns
to show you in case you
wanna get deeper later.
HTML streaming, this sounds interesting.
So on large pages the browser doesn't
render or even parse the page until all
the response was sent and downloaded,
which leads to a performance issue.
And by the way,
performance is a large, huge topic.
There are a couple of workshops at
Frontend Masters just to talk about
performance, and
there are a lot of design patterns
also that are targeting performance.
So, In this case, there is a new
API known as the Stream API.
So you can use the Streams API
with Service Workers, and
you will be rendering HTML in chunks.
So you will be receiving
chunks of bytes with the HTML.
So the server will actually send you
partial HTML responses over the same
HTTP connection.
Using service workers on the Streams API,
you will receive them and
you will pass them to the browser,
to the main window context so
it can start rendering part by part.
Okay, make sense?
Use case is to improve performance on
the initial page load, that's the idea.
Also, you can render the data
above the fold initially.
Do you know what above the fold means?
Have you heard about that?
Well, I can do this,
so this is a newspaper.
So think about newspaper,
all classic printed newspaper,
well that newspapers were actually
really large so they were folded.
So, of course, if you pay for
an ad it's more
expensive if it's above
the fold not below the fold.
And we are actually using the same terms
from above the fold and below the fold on
the web that has to do that,
it's actually about the first scroll.
We don't have fold levels, but
we are not talking about fold
level devices like a Galaxy Fold,
it's just that for performance.
The idea is that let's download the HTML
first for the above default for
what you actually are seeing
without scrolling.
And after that, we render the rest
using just one HTTP request,
but using Streams, that's the idea.
Okay this is how it looks like.
Without streaming, it has to wait for
the full response before
actually parsing that.
But now the one from the bottom,
as soon as some markup arrives in chunks,
you will start parsing and
rendering the chunk, okay?
It's just that, so then you can
render content on the screen faster.
>> Speaker 2: So
it's like infinite scrolling.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: For infinite
scrolling, you can use that pattern.
The problem with infinite scrolling
is that it's infinite and
you cannot for that.
It's probably better to use web sockets or
other technique,
because in this case, we're still
we're still using HTTP response, so
it's a server sending a response chunks.
The problem with infinite scrolling is
that you need to wait for the user to.
Scroll, and you don't want to keep
the HTTP connection open waiting for
users the users to scroll.
So maybe WebSocket is a better
implementation for that problem.
Virtual DOM,
if you have ever played with React,
you probably have heard about
the Virtual DOM, what's the idea?
Working with the DOM directly
is expensive, for example,
on an infinite scroll.
That's one of the most used examples
of why you need this design pattern.
So working with the DOM is expensive
from a rendering point of view.
So the solution is to create
a Virtual DOM in memory.
So you add elements or remove elements
in memory, not in the real DOM.
And every once in a while,
when you when it's a good time for it.
And there are different techniques to
actually decide when it's a good time.
You go and synchronize your virtual
DOM with the real DOM, but you touch.
To the real DOM once, not a lot of times,
that's kind of the idea.
This is for complex user
interfaces with lot of elements or
large list with re-order and operations
that you create, you add, you move, okay?
You can use the idea of a virtual DOM.